.. _azure_configuration_helmtutorial:

Tutorial - Helm Deployment
==========================

This is a step-by-step tutorial for deploying the Azure Container Host in Azure Kubernetes Service 
(AKS) with the provided helm chart and deployment script. This tutorial makes use of the 
`Azure CLI <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest>`_
and `helm <https://helm.sh/>`_. Make sure that both are installed and you are logged in to your 
subscription.

1. Create a Resource Group
--------------------------

This will hold all of the Azure resources created in this tutorial. You could use an existing 
resource group too.

.. code-block:: bash

    az group create --name c7n-helm-tutorial --location westus2

2. Create a Storage Account
---------------------------

This storage account will hold all of the blobs and queues used by the container host. You could 
also use an existing resource here or multiple storage accounts.

We will also create two blob containers. One will host the uploaded policies, and the other will store
the custodian output files of running policies.

.. code-block:: bash

    az storage account create --resource-group c7n-helm-tutorial --name c7nstorage

    account_key=$(az storage account keys list --account-name c7nstorage --query "[0].value" --output tsv)
    az storage container create --account-name c7nstorage --account-key $account_key --name c7n-helm-policies
    az storage container create --account-name c7nstorage --account-key $account_key --name c7n-helm-logs

3. Create a Service Principal
-----------------------------

This Service Principal will be used as the identity for the container host. You could also use an existing Service Principal.
Remember to save the password to use as the client secret.

.. code-block:: bash

    az ad sp create-for-rbac --name c7n-helm 

This Service Principal will need the proper permissions to interact with the storage account and any other 
azure resources that the Azure Container Host interacts with. This includes the resources that 
policies will run against.

The simplest way to grant these permissions is to make the identity a ``Contributor`` on the target 
subscription and a ``Storage Blob Data Contributor`` and ``Storage Queue Data Contributor`` on the 
storage account created above.

.. code-block:: bash

    az role assignment create --assignee <Service Principal Client Id> \
        --role "Contributor" --scope <Target Subscription Resource Id>

    az role assignment create --assignee <Service Principal Client Id> \
        --role "Storage Blob Data Contributor" --scope <Storage Account Resource Id>

    az role assignment create --assignee <Service Principal Client Id> \
        --role "Storage Queue Data Contributor" --scope <Storage Account Resource Id>

4. Create an Application Insights Instance
------------------------------------------

We will create an Application Insights instance to gather logs and telemetry generated by the 
running container host.

.. code-block:: bash

    # You may need to add the application-insights extension
    az extension add -n application-insights

    az monitor app-insights component create --resource-group c7n-helm-tutorial --app c7n-helm-insights --location westus2    

5. Create an AKS Cluster and Install Tiller
-------------------------------------------

This AKS cluster will be used to host the pods running the Container Host. Tiller will also need to 
be installed with the proper service account. The provided node count and vm size will create a 
small cluster and should be adjusted to fit your needs outside this tutorial.

.. code-block:: bash

    az aks create --resource-group c7n-helm-tutorial --name c7n-helm \
        --node-count 1 --node-vm-size Standard_B2s \
        --service-principal <Service Principal ID> --client-secret <Client Secret>

    az aks get-credentials --resource-group c7n-helm-tutorial --name c7n-helm    

Once the cluster has been created, we can initialize helm and tiller. First, create the Service 
Account and Cluster Role Binding for Tiller

.. code-block:: yaml

    # rbac-config.yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ServiceAccount
    metadata:
      name: tiller
      namespace: kube-system
    ---
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRoleBinding
    metadata:
      name: tiller
    roleRef:
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: cluster-admin
    subjects:
      - kind: ServiceAccount
        name: tiller
        namespace: kube-system

.. code-block:: bash

    kubectl apply -f rbac-config.yaml

    helm init --service-account tiller 

6. Deploy the Helm Chart
------------------------

Now we are ready to deploy the helm chart and the container host. Create a file with the helm 
configuration values for our container host. See the :ref:`Container Host Documentation<azure_containerhosting>`
for information on filling out the environment variables.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # helm-values.yaml 

    defaultEnvironment:
      AZURE_TENANT_ID: "<Azure Tenant ID>"
      AZURE_CLIENT_ID: "<Azure Client ID>"
      AZURE_CONTAINER_POLICY_URI: "<Azure Policy Container URI>"
      AZURE_CONTAINER_STORAGE_RESOURCE_ID: "<Storage Account Resource ID>"
      AZURE_CONTAINER_METRICS: "azure://<App Insights Instrumentation Key>"
      AZURE_CONTAINER_LOG_GROUP: "azure://<App Insights Instrumentation Key>"
      AZURE_CONTAINER_OUTPUT_DIR: "<Azure Logs Container URI>"

    subscriptionHosts:
      - name: '<Subscription Name>'
        environment:
          AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: "<Subscription ID>"

Then deploy the chart with the following command. The client secret should come
from creating the Service Principal and must be provided in a base64 encoded format.

.. code-block:: bash

    helm upgrade --install --debug --force --wait \
        --namespace cloud-custodian --values helm-values.yaml \
        --set defaultSecretEnvironment.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<Base 64 Azure Client Secret> \
        helm-tutorial tools/ops/azure/container-host/chart

To verify that the pod is running:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Check if pod status is "Running"
    kubectl get pods --namespace cloud-custodian

    # Watch the logs for the pod
    kubectl logs <Pod Name> --namespace cloud-custodian --follow

7. Upload a Custodian Policy
----------------------------

Finally, create a custodian policy called ``find-c7nstorage.yaml``. This policy will just find the 
storage account we made earlier. We'll set the mode to run every minute for easier testing.

.. code-block:: yaml

    policies:
    - name: find-c7nstorage
      resource: azure.storage
      mode: 
        type: container-periodic
        schedule: "* * * * *"  # Run every minute as an example
      filters:
      - type: value
        key: name
        op: eq
        value: c7nstorage


Upload this file to the policy storage container. Within a few minutes, the container host should 
pick it up and begin executing it.

.. code-block:: bash

    az storage blob upload --account-name c7nstorage --account-key $account_key \
        --container-name c7n-helm-policies --file find-c7nstorage.yaml --name find-c7nstorage.yaml
